Well, thank you so much, Sam, for your wonderful introduction.
And thank you, Charles, for your great welcoming remarks.
And I want to thank Pat for her hospitality.
And I want to thank the entire UTEP community for inviting me to join with you in this wonderful event, an event that not only celebrates books, but celebrates the book as an artifact.
We have with us two remarkable young women who will be this year's Carl Herzog honor recipients.
It's really a great pleasure to meet them.
And I have to say that the Whistler book, I'm originally from Lowell, Massachusetts, where James McNeil Whistler was born.
So there's always some connection, isn't there?
We mentioned Whistler, Massachusetts, and your father lives in Massachusetts.
So there's always these little connections that we make when we travel far afield.
I'm just so impressed by the fact that I've come to Shangri-La on the border.
I have to say, when Sam drove me up the hill yesterday and I saw these remarkable buildings in this architecture, I first thought, wow, this is southwestern architecture.
And then I said, wait a minute, maybe it's Asian.
And then, of course, then it's Butanese.
And now I find that you are quite correctly anointed as Shangri-La at the border.
Wonderful phrase.
Well, I tell you, I look up here and say, still my heart.
To see the dust jacket of a book that you work on for 10 years, all of a sudden, you know, 15 feet, however, it's quite an exciting experience, I have to say.
Even after all these years, we're now entering the fifth year of publication.
As Sam mentioned, the book was published in 1995.
We've had seven editions, six in hardcover, and each one is a, this is a book arts gathering, so we do appreciate, I guess, the niceties between printings and editions.
I'm a person who believes that a book like mine, which is a nonfiction work, which deals with living people as well as deceased people, can't help but to be a work in progress.
And you say, how is that possible, a book that's
published and produced and designed and issued between hard covers, how can a completed work be a work in progress?
Well, I guess that kind of brings us to the title of the lecture today.
Actually, I prefer to call it a talk.
I think a lecture is a little too pedantic for a person of my temperament.
I'm much more comfortable talking with you and having a conversation with you.
But Among the Gently Mad, of course, is a play on the title of A Gentle Madness.
And it is a continuing work in my view.
Those of you who have had an opportunity to read the preface to the paperback, you'll note that I have had an opportunity to bring up to date at least five of the major stories in there.
The great collector of modern first editions, Carter Burton, died in February of 1996 and his collection went to the Morgan Library.
Then we had a famous chef from Chicago, Chef Louis Zafmari, when he passed away, also in 1996.
He saw to it that his 250,000 books and perhaps a million culinary objects went to a variety of institutions to help them support museums and libraries and scholarship.
And so there was another collector who had a transition, which I felt obligated to report
on and to my readers.
And then we also have the passing on of Dr. Haskell Norman, who is arguably the greatest collector of science books and medical books, again also in 1996.
It really was a threesome of three extraordinary collectors who in each, in his own way, contributed to the cycle of books and collecting.
The subtext of A Gentle Madness, it's wonderful to have a title
that incorporates and embraces the word madness.
I think that's one of the things that has really resonated with readers when you're talking about emotion and human nature and passion and obsession, of course.
It was an inspiration, I have to say, when I came up with the title of Gentle Madness.
And when I heard Sam say the new title of the new book is Lions at the Gate, then I whispered to myself, well, for now it is.
It could change.
And that is maybe the 10th or 12th
different title that I've had.
It's really been much tougher to come up with a title for this new book.
I like the image of Lyons, who are the guardians of libraries, historically, traditionally, going back hundreds of years.
And I'll tell you, this is a plea, this is a request.
I've made requests to the queries to the Morgan Library in New York with their Lyons outside.
to the New York Public Library where there are lions outside, to the Boston Public Library where there are wonderful lions inside.
The Art Institute of Chicago, I believe, has lions.
The British Museum has lions.
Nobody can tell me where this tradition started.
I mean, I've asked the head librarians, the Charles Pierce at the Morgan Library.
You know, that's a good question, they say.
We don't know.
Well, I'm still looking.
But I like the idea of the lion as the guardian of the library, the guardian of the book.
And if you think about it, the lion, of course,
facing outward is protecting the library.
But if you turn them around, then I guess the image can almost be a predator.
And the book is under attack in many quarters.
We have suggestions.
There will be a chapter in my new book, which I call The Once and Future Library.
And it's a case study examination of the San Francisco Public Library situation, which many of you may have read about in the New Yorker magazine with Nicholson Baker.
I spent two weeks out there attempting to get every little nuance and every little detail on just what happened there.
What was this calculus that was put into play that actually persuaded these people that they could build a library without books, that they could actually build a place that was quite beautiful, have an atrium with wonderful sound
acoustics in there.
If you can believe it, a reading room is supposed to be quiet.
You can hear pin drops in there.
You can have string quartets play in there, but you really don't have much room for people to sit down and read.
And then you wonder what kind of books they're going to read because they sent 500,000 books off to a landfill without even documenting what books that they were.
And now, just within the last six weeks, the people of San Francisco have had a post-occupancy evaluation
which reports that it will take $30 million to now repair this state-of-the-art future library and to make it a real legitimate library.
Well, it's a very interesting case study, and I know that you've had some concerns here in El Paso, and I certainly don't mean to be making any comparisons.
I think we all have to deal with our own library situations, but I think that there is a cautionary tale there that you should all be alert to and you should study and pay attention to.
Well, I guess I'm jumping ahead of myself.
I usually talk about the new book towards the end of the talk.
But among the gently mad, who are the gently mad?
I guess all of us who love books have a touch of the gentle madness.
Sam mentioned that I am from Massachusetts.
I spent my professional life working in Worcester, much of it, as a book review editor, 13 years.
than as an independent scholar and a writer and a historian of books and book culture.
And very early on, I did an essay for a Boston magazine, and the subject of this essay was 1200 years of collecting in Boston.
Now you wonder how that is possible.
You know, Boston, we've only been here for 300 years or so.
But if you look at 350 years at Harvard, and if you look at 200 years at the Massachusetts Historical Society, and 200 years at
the American Antiquarian Society, and you go on and on, and the math adds up to about 1,200 years.
And what I did was write a kind of a narrative history of all of these institutions, and not just the collection and the gathering of the books, but the kind of passion and obsession that went into building these collections.
And it dawned on me at one really almost epiphanous moment that it is really the passion, the obsession,
of the quirky eccentric collector who is responsible for preserving so much of what we know of our literature, our culture, our history, and that without the efforts of these determined, driven individuals, so much of what we know of ourselves and value of ourselves would be lost forever.
So I wrote this piece, and it was published in 1988, I guess it was, and had a very nice response.
And my wife, God bless her, I remember, prior to the publication of this piece, I like to read to her what I write aloud.
I get a good feeling for the rhythms and the nuances and the organization.
And I remember reading this opening paragraph for her.
I started at Harvard University on the second floor of the Houghton Library, and with the death mask of John Keats,
in the Amy Lowell room, and then I moved across the Charles River and up to Beacon Hill to the Boston Athenaeum.
And she said, you know, there's your book.
You know, the light flashes over you.
This could be the book that you were born to write.
Excuse me just a second here.
And so began this quixotic
attempt to try and document as much as I could the creation of the great libraries and the efforts and the contributions put forward and put forth by these private collectors.
Now, how do we get the title of Gentle Madness?
I've worked in Worcester, Massachusetts, and in Worcester is, believe it or not, the oldest library, which is an example of a distinctively American species of library.
the American Antiquarian Society, which was established in 1812 by a gentleman named Isaiah Thomas.
Isaiah Thomas was known in his day as the most prominent printer.
He was a patriot.
He fought at the battles of Lexington and Concord.
He published the first reports of the battles in his Massachusetts spy.
After the war, he was a great printer, binder.
He owned his wood factories to make paper.
He wrote the first history of printing in North America, a book that is still in print.
We don't remember him really for all of these things today.
We remember him for his book collection, which became the American Antiquarian Society, and which became the first of a distinctively American institution, which is a library.
founded by a book collector with a great collection, which is really not connected or associated with any academic institution, but exists with its own endowment, with its own staff, with its own librarians.
It's there to serve scholars.
The AAS was the first, but we also have in the United States the Morgan Library in New York, the wonderful Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C., the Huntington Library in California,
Park Library in Los Angeles.
I mean, you can go on and on.
There are the John Carter Brown Library in Providence, Rhode Island.
And each one reflects a certain kind of a passion, Americana, Shakespeare.
Morgan is, of course, great illuminated manuscripts.
Huntington, of course, is wonderful British things.
The wonderful charts are wonderful things.
It's a distinctively American institution.
Well, when Isaiah Thomas died at the
ripe old age of, I think it was 92.
His grandson said in tribute that grandfather was afflicted at the earliest of ages with the gentlest of infirmities.
He was a bibliomaniac.
I remember reading that phrase and saying, well, you know, there's my title right there.
And thus we have a gentle madness.
And I also take note of the subtitle.
Being a good journalist, I've learned
especially as a book editor, that if you have a long subtitle that pretty much summarizes your book, wherever it's reviewed, you're going to get a nice big boldface ad for free at the top of the piece, Bibliophiles, Bibliomanes, and the Eternal Passion for Books.
I have a definition in the introduction, a German bibliographer by the name of Hans Bohata, who said, the bibliophile is the master of his books, the bibliomaniac, their slave.
And then he also acknowledges that you never really know when you cross the line.
And I'm often asked, am I a bibliomaniac?
One local reviewer in Worcester who said, well, Nick Basbane may not be a bibliomaniac, but he certainly is on the cusp.
And I kind of like that.
I moderated a forum at the American Antiquarian Society a couple of weeks ago, and I was introduced there as a person who really collects collectors
And I guess I like that a lot, because I really do see these people who I've gotten to know and spent a lot of time with them, learning not only about their collections and their collecting and their libraries and their passions, but have become friends in many cases with them, have followed their fortunes.
And I guess I can never afford to own a first folio of Shakespeare.
but I certainly could handle one, as Abel Berland allowed me to do in Chicago.
He'll be in my new book, a chapter on scholar collectors.
I couldn't stay away from the collectors.
The new book is a continuation of themes.
It will involve many book culture considerations, but I will have a chapter on people I consider scholar collectors, another chapter on scholar booksellers.
technology, preservation, libraries through history, libraries of the future.
I'm really going off the deep end here, perhaps, which may in a few minutes bring us to Stephen Blumberg, my book thief, by the way, who is the example of the collector who kind of falls off the cliff.
Now, there was a review in the local paper, which I'm grateful for, very well written.
Thank you very much, sir, if you're here.
The headline said, book croaks.
which is a great phrase.
But I have to say that the book is really not about the theft of books.
I maintain that bibliomania is a very productive thing.
And I think that these libraries and these great collections, the great collections that you have here, I'm sure that a good number of them I've seen, I know a good number of them, come to you courtesy of your friends, of private individuals, of collectors.
It isn't just these individual libraries, by the way, that I've mentioned.
that exist because of collectors, the great collections in many libraries outside, in universities, Harvard, here at HRC, which I have a chapter on at the Lansom Center at the University of Texas in Austin.
Many, many gifts there from collectors, people who have followed their passions.
So then people say to me, well, if you're writing about the
the productive aspects of bibliomania.
What in the world is Steven Blumberg doing in there?
Why do you have this chapter, which you call the Blumberg Collection?
Now, for those of you who haven't read the book, chapter 13, just coincidental that it happens to be chapter 13.
And I noticed, by the way, that you have a room over in the library called the Blumberg Auditorium.
I don't think there's any relationship.
I mean, it's kind of cute.
Stephen Carey Blumberg was arrested 10 years ago in Ottomua, Iowa, by a squadron of 17 FBI agents.
And when they went into his Victorian home, they seized 23,800 books, which he had gathered over the previous 20 years from 268 libraries in 45 states, two Canadian provinces in the District of Columbia.
23,000 books, initially valued at perhaps as high as $20 million.
Later, more realistically, determined to be about $5 million.
The point is, this fellow had spent 20 years traveling the United States, coming... I don't know if he came here, by the way.
I should check.
He may have.
He loved Texas, by the way.
He actually spent a lot of time down here.
He was kind of in the antique business.
He spent 20 years assembling this library.
He had a Nuremberg Chronicle, which is the last great history of the world written prior to the discovery of America, so it makes it very, very interesting.
The author of that book quite wisely left a few blank pages at the back so you could add breaking events such as the discovery of America.
He got his copy of the Nuremberg Chronicle from Claremont College in California.
He had the state of Connecticut's own copy of the first book printed in Connecticut.
And he got that out of the State Library of Connecticut, which is not open to the public.
We still don't know how he got in there.
It was in a vault.
He had books from the University of Michigan.
He had books from Harvard University, the Library of Congress, 268 libraries.
And he actually, now I called him, I call that chapter the Plumberg Collection.
A cute title.
But it does, it does illustrate the difference between a collection and what we call an accumulation.
You know, there are people like the famous Cauldre Brothers in New York who died literally under the weight of all their books.
You know, they collapsed.
But this was just a mass of things.
There was no focus.
Blumberg had a focus.
A collection is a focused extension of your personality.
It reflects your interests in life, your passions in literature or music or whatever.
Stephen Blumberg's passion was Americana, was architecture, was design.
Did I mention that he owned 50,000 doorknobs, antique doorknobs?
He had 120,078 RPM records.
He had 10,000 stained glass windows.
I was thinking at dinner last night in this Tiffany room here at the Camino Real Hotel.
I thought, boy, if Lumberg had ever been here, he would have figured out a way.
There's no question.
His ever-always, we say, he would travel.
He would find condemned structures.
His passion was Victoriana.
And he is quite an authority on these things, by the way.
He would go in and he would strip the place of the stained glass windows or the doorknobs or the fixtures or the fireplace, whatever he could find that was old, that was interesting to him.
Did I mention that he also was a person of independent means?
You would never know it to see him.
He lived, you would think in first seeing him, but he's kind of a homeless person.
But he really was living in the 19th century.
His family is from Minnesota.
They are the largest single owners of real estate in St.
Paul.
So there are some means there.
I think the last estimate I read was $250 million.
Why couldn't he buy the books that he wanted?
He could certainly afford to do that.
But he chose to go and select, as he said.
And he did.
very interesting when he was arrested fully 95 percent of the books that he had were never known to have been missing until the day they were recovered only five percent had been reported missing now this is again you talk about cautionary tales a lot of a lot of like and it's every place in america believe in harvard university
Every place with the greatest security systems were victimized by this fellow.
He really was a brilliant master thief.
He was a cat burglar.
I mean, if you have a chance to read chapter 13, you'll find that he would affect the...
the demeanor of a professor.
He managed to get some documents that identified him as a scholar.
He would travel around with a briefcase.
He would go in.
He would introduce himself.
He'd find his way around.
He'd identify the books that he would want to come back and get later.
How did he get in?
Well, he would find a way.
I don't know how he would do it, but he'd probably find your desk.
I'm talking you generically now, Pat.
But he would find your keys.
He would remove them.
He'd make a copy.
He'd come back later at night.
He would defeat security systems.
He'd back up a pickup truck.
He'd load up with books.
And he did this for 20 years, and he really didn't get caught through any fault of his own.
He had a good friend, good friend in quotes, who got in trouble with the law and turned him in for a bounty of $56,000.
Well, at this birth book, Gentle Madness, I already had the title.
I was working on it.
It had a focus.
I knew where I was going.
I had already sold it.
The contract was signed.
And then I read in the newspaper about the arrest of this fellow in Atomua, Iowa.
And I knew instantly that, you know, it's going to take a little longer to finish this book, I'm afraid.
And so I went out to Des Moines.
I spent two weeks there, got to know Mr. Blumberg, spent a day with him.
He took me down.
He was out on bail while the trial was pending.
On the Saturday, when Court was not in session, he called my room.
He said, would you like to, he had this gravelly voice, would you like to spend a day in the life of Stephen Blumberg?
And I said, what time?
He said, 10 minutes.
And I was out in front of the hotel.
We were on our way.
We went down to a town where he took me into one of the nine warehouses that he is known to have maintained, one down here in Texas, by the way, throughout the United States, where he kept his stained glass windows, his antiques, all of these remarkable things.
The library, by the way, began as a reference library.
He wanted to know more about his antiques.
And then one of the great quotes is, well, you know, us collectors, once we get started, we can't stop.
And I said, well, how does that explain?
He said, Americana, I love Americana.
I said, well, how does that explain the incunabula?
You know, these are books that are 500 years old, published prior to 1501, published in the cradle period of printing.
We call them incunables, which literally means from the cradle.
You know, he had, well, the Nuremberg Chronicle was an incunable.
He had a hundred of these books.
You know, I mean, this is a remarkable collection of...
of 500-year-old books.
And that's when he said, well, you know collectors, once we get started, we really can't stop.
What proved to be part of his undoing was that he collected trophies.
He had three scrapbooks.
When he removed the books, he took them back to a tumbler.
And he would take out, he didn't hurt the books.
He was very good to the books.
He loved the books.
He was passionate about the books.
And when he took them back, he took out the book weights, and he put them all very neatly, pardon me, geographically, and pasted them into these three scrapbooks.
And we talk about jumping ahead, and how I continue to collect my collectors.
I just this summer acquired those three scrapbooks.
They are now
in my collection and they i paid a dear price for them i have to say but uh thankfully the person who had them i mean the federal government had them they and they still have their marking on the exhibit number one and uh and then they were given to creighton university along with books that they couldn't determine the ownership of and creighton
decided that they didn't want to keep them, and they were consigned to a bookseller, and they actually had an auction, and I was given the opportunity to get these.
They belong in my collection, I think.
But they're very, very interesting.
You can really follow this progress around the country.
My daughter is a first-year student at Smith College out in Western Massachusetts, and I know the director of special collections there very well, a fellow by the name of Martin Antonetti.
I was telling them that I had just recently acquired these notebooks,
These scrapbooks, he said, Nick, he said, did he ever get to Smith?
I said, you don't know?
He said, no.
I said, well, let me check.
Well, I sent him an email.
I couldn't bear to call him and break the news.
But there are six different Smith book plates in there.
And two with shelf numbers.
So I said, we don't know what books they were.
But in two instances, there were shelf numbers.
So I said, Martin, let me know what books they were.
And he didn't get back to me on that.
But he has an Ivy League section.
He has a Southwest section.
He has a California section.
And very neatly put together.
Really has a remarkable window into this guy.
Did I mention?
I didn't.
That his trial, he was convicted, by the way.
At his trial, his defense, for what amounted to the only instance in the history of American jurisprudence,
of a case of what I call criminal bibliomania, where the defense was not guilty by reason of insanity.
This is what he claimed.
I thought it was ridiculous until I got to the trial.
And you know, it wasn't that frivolous after a while.
It was demonstrated at this trial.
Then he had had nine institutional admittances.
I'll have to, when I do the text of this talk, I'll have to find a better noun than that.
But he was committed in nine different instances where he was treated, and then always came back to breaking into abandoned houses, going into condemned structures.
Now what's the latest update of Mr. Blumberg?
He did it seven years.
He was released.
He was told to go near no libraries or bookstores or museums or condemned houses.
He was arrested in Des Moines.
He was in a condemned house, stripping the thing of doorknobs, and he's going back for five years.
Go figure.
While he was in prison, we had to maintain the long correspondence.
A fascinating character.
I don't know why nobody from Hollywood hasn't come forward to do a movie on this guy.
If you're going to do a crime story as a writer, I mean, what better story could you possibly have?
Here's a person whose crime idea is that he loves books too much.
He really does.
I mean, there's no murder, there's no rape, there's no child abuse, there's no battering, there's no trucks.
Everything that was stolen was returned in a better shape than it was when it was taken.
So if you have to do a crime story, that's not bad.
I taped the seven hours.
So I have this wonderful archive of tape-recorded conversation with him.
And as we're driving down to a tumble, you can hear him say at one point, shut the tape recorder off.
Okay, I shut it off.
He was holding out as a bargaining chip the fact that he knew where all the books came from, because he had taken out all the book plates and he had disguised provenance, as we say in the book world, with prior ownership.
So he pretty much figured that he could help them, and if he helped them determine where the books came from, then that might get him a lighter sentence.
He said, you know the Uncle Tom's cabin I think I got from Harvard?
I said, USC.
University of Southern California.
Didn't get it from Harvard, got it from USC.
They discovered that at some point.
He was also working very closely with the FBI to tell them where he got the books.
At one point, there was a special collections librarian from Duke, a gentleman by the name of John Sharp, who went to the warehouse in Omaha, Nebraska, where I was admitted, the only journalist allowed inside, to see these books.
before they were returned.
The FBI agent said, what in the world do you want to come here for?
All it looks like is a library of old books.
No kidding.
That's the idea.
It looks like a library.
That's what it is.
It is a library.
You wonder why a reporter or a journalist always has to see something where you can't really rely on what somebody tells you it looks like or secondhand descriptions.
If you read that chapter, I begin it
with this conversation with the FBI agent saying, why in the world do you want to come out here?
And I go in and I guess what really didn't impress me immediately was the massive books.
What really impressed me were these stenciled signs on the shelves.
University of Michigan, University of Texas, USC, Harvard, Massachusetts Historical Society.
That kind of crystallized for me what this story was about, because he was not only just stealing books, he really was stealing part of our national patrimony, and that is a grievous crime.
You know, I was thinking earlier when you were saying that you have books overdue, I was smiling, I was thinking Clearwater, Florida, you know?
Have you met the story down in Clearwater where these two people had books overdue and they arrested them?
And everybody said, well, I did this just for books.
Just for books?
Well, I said, you know, with all due respect, you've had books out for two years.
Maybe it's not a bad idea to have a little bit of an object lesson.
And then maybe the books won't be read, just books.
But people say to me, I'm a journalist, you know.
You've spent 15 years now writing about nothing but books.
I said, well, what would you have me write about, you know?
I mean, if not books, what?
Oxygen?
I mean, food?
The essentials of life?
I mean, what better thing, as far as I'm concerned, can we write about than books?
We celebrate here, and I failed to mention that because we do honor book design here, the engraving here is called The Book Fool.
It was drawn by Albrecht Durer in the late 1800s.
late 1580, this particular book was printed in 1494 in Basel, in Das Basel or wherever, Das Naranschief, the original Ship of Fools.
And the number one fool in the whole Navy of the Ship of Fools was the book fool.
And so there he is there.
And I remember seeing that picture, that illustration, and I wonder, there it is.
Wonderful.
Well, there it is.
That's 1494.
wood engraving.
I remember when I sent in my manuscript, my 1300s age manuscript to New York, I just kind of Xeroxed this wood cut and put it on top and I said to the editor, try and do something with this with a dust jack.
And maybe if you can just kind of suggest the decorations around the border there.
So I'm not a book designer.
The young woman who did design the book, she did a splendid, wonderful job.
And I have to take credit for the art and for the suggestion.
And I really think that this is one instance where the appearance of a book has just made such a fantastic, you say you can't sell a book by its cover.
Well, I'd like to think that we have seven printings because of the content.
and the stories that I tell.
But I also know that in Christmas of 1995 or 1996, Rizzoli's bookstore in New York gave it a whole window.
And my wonderful mother was in New York to see some plays.
She's 80 years old.
She's walking down Fifth Avenue and she sees the window.
But all copies of my book are in this splendid poster.
And she went in and she said, that's my son.
You have to give me that poster.
I thought she was crazy.
And they refused.
I said, no, mother, they need the poster.
You know, they're trying to sell books.
It's a wonderful poster.
She had to have it.
But she didn't get it, as it turns out.
But it's really quite a thrill still to see it displayed on a screen like this here.
I failed to mention earlier that this is my first trip to El Paso.
I didn't really believe how far west and how far south I was until I did look at the map.
We from New England tend to be pretty smug.
We take pride in the fact that the first printing press in what we now know as the United States was set up in 1639 in Cambridge.
And there the first, the base, what we know is the base of what was printed.
Well, you come down here and you realize that the first press in North America was established in Mexico 100 years earlier.
And the first book in North America was printed, you know, I don't know if it's within eyesight of where we stand, but it is here.
And when Mr. Herzog came here, as he said, as a tenderfoot Yankee,
He came and became known as the printer at the pass.
I just think that is such a delightful, wonderful story and that he celebrated the book not only as an object and as an artifact and as a visual performance but also as a container and a bearer and a vessel of information and the fact that you celebrate his accomplishments and you celebrate him and you have this wonderful competition and you recognize these
wonderful young women who have produced beautiful books.
I just tip my hat to you and I thank you very much for inviting me to join with you here and to share in this celebration of books and to honor these young women for their splendid accomplishments.
And I thank you very much for coming out on a beautiful day.
My wife tells me it's 10 degrees at home.
a little bit of snow overnight, and going down below zero.
And I said, you should be with me in El Paso.
And she said, well, next time.
And I really, truly hope that there is a next time, and that you look out for Lions of the Gate next year.
Thank you very much for coming out for session.
At this time, we will be presenting
The award consists of a prize of $1,000 and a managal design by Todd Lee, who has received 106 entries from publishers and book designers across the country.
a panel of three judges selected as the letter, a publication by the Art Institute of Chicago entitled The Lipograph of San Antonio Whitlam.
The desire for the two bodies set is by Studio Glee.
The Hussard Award judges characterize this work as a tour de force, a monumental work with consistent attention to minds and channels that is very rare to find.
They also describe it as an act of a piece.
The printed boards prepare you for something special in size.
The title page continues to judge, and in the literature's lyricism of the high publishing sets a wonderful sentence for the presentation of Kitzler's images.
The two partners in the Studio Blues, Charles Humbley and Captain Ferguson, have a very impressive list of projects and titles for their credit.
One of the two runners-up in the Hitchcock Award competitions, Sherrick Chung's Stones of China, is also a publication of the Art Institute of Chicago and the Science of My Senior Group.
There may not only be awards for the Hitchcock as the winner, but as the winner of it.
Other titles from Studio Berlin Street to God and Me, a publication of her life in this year.
I followed the poetry song, The Making of Art in the Modern Age, Conflict and Justice.
Julia Margaret Cameron's Wing, another publication of the Art Institute of Chicago, and then an exhibition from the Baker and Albert's Smart Museum of Art called Still More District Journey, even with the pure examples of some of the things that Julia Breed has been working with.
Julia Breed also runs the museum in designing their institutions and other projects.
Carol has a master of fine arts and graphic arts degrees, and Catherine has a master of arts and instruments degrees.
To create a talent at the studio, will you design a place to see the community art in the recent science program?
Some of these come from the Center for Jesus Organizations as the American Association of the University of Franklin, the American Center for Desirements, the American Institute of Graphic Art, the Art Library Association of the American Library Association of the University of Maryland,
the American Association of New Zealand, the Chicago Book Prince, the New Zealand Fundamentals of First Nations, Trent Leonard Reed, and the General Judicial Award.
The friends of Goliath University are very, very happy to be here with Carl McClubbin Ward, to C.O.
Williams, represented by Carol Holmes and Kathy Frederick in the New York City Commission.
And we'll ask each of them to say two words at each time.
I don't have much to say, but I want to thank you all for honoring me, and for the wonderful kindness and hospitality that you've shown to us in our business here.
I especially want to thank Adam and Laura and the library.
It's our first time to have been really a very remarkable and special place.
And I'm delighted to be here.
I just want to say a few words to about the process that we need to be stable.
And a little bit about our partnership.
I first met Carol in 2019 when I was working at the RU to be here in Chicago.
And I've been working for three years with the editor of the period of Carol on this catalog.
And as fun as two hieroglyphs, diviners, diviners, enormous projects.
And most of the time, at that point, that we wanted that the Art Institute awards were from east of state to New York, but we wanted time to come up with students local.
And I remember this, I remember this coming a few weeks earlier to show me her portfolio, and I had to really trust the quality of it, which was right out of graduate school, and she received that in four boys.
So I suppose that when we consider it as a process, we realize that at that time, we had hundreds of millions of pictures, and there were literally hundreds of illustrations.
I think it's too long.
That is over 1,000 print pages.
We offered the project, and we waited to see what would happen, and we started researching material, looking at the trends, learning all about what sort of work, and to remember, .
And for me at this point, we will break through into my career, because through the use of design,
we've been able to capture some of the elements as far as the work.
The way that she, the title of the poetry, the way that the title works, and the way that the lab works, is sometimes something can happen.
For me, the first person is talking about a lot of style that they've written in the photograph.
And she also created a book that was very contemporary and fresh.
And that was a confusion of our relationship.
We've been asked to be partners and eight years have passed.
And I still think about pleasure in the process of discovery that we use when we grow, whether it's for an exhibition or a website.
We're betrayers and we do that too.
But like Nicholas with his project, his book was a 10-year process for me.
And what's really rewarding is that we
We've done something that is hard to do so wonderful and we do love it and we want to thank you for recognizing that and for having a gift.
and how I had a couple of talks to Kathy said, and I think there's some things that have been found for everyone to do with that, and it has been a very wonderful discussion to all of that.
So I think having that been particularly touched by the three reasons that have been our options as all of our patients have been used by this as we tried to explain it now.
I think it allows you to be cranial to use in each sort of forces that they'll use each other's spirit.
a combination of learning and reading about a subject, and then trying to make this terrible, miserable form that you have to accept subject in some way that means your own business has to get.
It's really one of the hardest but rewarding challenges you've found.
Carpenter taught yourself to have set a step, and he said that a book is circumcised, whether they are talking about the errors or cultivating,
It's so peculiar to one that it's been kind of a trick, because something is kind of a enough cause of a testifier to the common care.
And what we also show up that we need in a serial about that thought is that it is not from the West, but it is happening to someone.
In learning about the West, I think he's been a curious caller, and then he arrived.
He's been extremely powerful and effective international.
I think that's the exact same process that you take on when you work on new projects that you really have to take.
delve into the approach that we're doing in a way to be able to create something better.
I also want to mention a little bit about the corroborative nature to the abuse has been said that in particular words like pain and still pain is the probability of the hard mind being able to come together.
And each of that plays several roles from a book.
He's believed by musicians, stories about the knowledge of the information organizers, to experts, to social projects, and to manage their opportunities.
And he's a weird role with his head, and he's really paralleled the technique with the practice of running time in the air.
He's on his sometimes functions out there, and sometimes it's time to do it.
What I really used to occur is a book that stars me down in Arusha, where you can study the biology, and I've been born, and I need to explore any type of stories in the book of it, which is what you find in the future of that nature.
Thank you very much.
At this time, I also, again, want to acknowledge the support that we have, and this is a lot of times, it has to be somewhat similar to the unthinkable speech.
They've got permission to have support in this lecture, and I want to write them.
So there are some of the writers that have come from the library, and you seem to know if you can continue here in the practice.
And I don't know if you have any friends here, but we want to again say thank you to the Texas Center for the work for his contribution to the president of Jordan and Dr. Roy West.
And I also want to express again my appreciation to the Carl and Sam and to St.
Laura for all his efforts in making this event possible.
And it's about free justice.
Professor Rocha Johnson-Arlo, Mr. George Wood, his family, Mr. Robert Stiegel.
He was in the community at one time.
He used to be the right thing autographed in our pastor.
He came back to be one of our pastor's stories.
Rocha Johnson-Arlo, a faculty member here at East County, graduated by, and there was some employment experience.
And that was the UC Press, and put it down.
And at this time now, we will invite the police to go and have a lobby and protect the body of justice.
And they will have a lot of peace in our world and our community.
Thank you for coming.
Oh, well, I deserve it.
We'll let you, I'll get you out of it.
It's not two years.
I was tempted to lunch and drink myself, but I thought that probably was not my role.
I thought I was thinking, well, just look on the impression of his face.
I don't know what he's putting on here with his crap in the air.
What was that, Frank?
No, I hadn't thought of it.
Look at that.
You know, I would like that.
There wasn't nothing in my head.
I would like to do it.
I have a man for you.
I'll put it in my new book.
Did you have that meeting with the mayor?
I got a message or something about it.
I have Bob Skimmett, a local author, who writes and authored his system.
He's probably sold three million copies, so he's not a beginner.
What's that?
He's not published in America.
Oh, it's wonderful.
I loved it.
No, no.
I started going for things that I didn't mean to go to.
You're right.
How do I just do it?
Let's see.
Where do we go?
I'm sorry.
Let's go outside and let's get you a table if you don't mind where you can be seated.
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
And we have a very fine collection of very fine books.
I'm curious, are there any folks there from Dallas?
Recently, actually, regarding our security.
He passes through Dallas on his way.
He gets four-signed a lecture at the Ransom Library.
Well, I invite you.
Have the first folio bus in the airport tonight.
We also have a new copy of that.
He has an e-mail address.
Right now, I'm sorry.
Okay.
regarding the lines there must be an explanation.
It could be, you know, St.
Jerome is always picking up the lines.
Some people say he did these things in the library.
That's not good enough.
This is something I don't want to go on for.
This is a couple of things put together by WCBH, and it's a... I'll look at that.
I wonder if you could pass it for longer.
I'll make copies.
I'll make copies and give you a good check.
Have you heard of the Antiques Roadshow?
Oh, yeah.
This is a guy that's developed it.
This guy's got to buy this big money from them, and they're really going to do a second.
Maybe I'll send you a comment about it.
Well, Antiques Roadshow is just coming to Austin, and I told Branson to get in touch with you.
How are you doing?
I think, I think, I hope it's going to go away.
L-I-B-X-C-I dot... Dallas, D-A-D-L-I-S.
Maybe we can have a little... I'll have some... He sure does.
Yes, I do.
We, we... Take a ride.
I don't want to just focus on San Francisco.
Right.
Well, I'm off to me with what's going on.
It's really coming down.
The incident in Florida.
Florida.
What's the end of Florida?
What happened in Florida?
Real clear one.
Okay, yeah.
Let's go ahead and get over here.
Okay.
I've been checking out.
Here we go.
The Dallas Public Library is the road institution for the Texas Center for the Book.
Your donation is in his contract.
Well spent, well spent.
I think I don't know.
If I held in some reason, would you do it?
I'd rather sit down.
Okay.
Right over here.
It could be right over here.
I don't sign them standing up with that.
I heard from him in the hospital, so I was going to sign him.
Well, let's do it right now.
Well, I mean, I should go.
Okay.
Sit down.
You don't have to tell them stories before you're wealthy.
If you're wealthy, you have a secretary to take care of the court.
Has anybody ever known me about it?
I can't.
You can't?
Everybody knows.
Thank you for your book.
Okay.
Beautiful.
Thank you so much.
And then she called me when you were on television, and I got to see you on television.
So this is for sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar.
I just get to visit with you at that luncheon the other day.
I know.
Because they had all you important people up there, but I had to take things and she had them.
Well, it's nice to see you again.
Yeah.
Do you know how we're going to move to White Acres?
I'm going to talk about that.
Yeah.
Are you going to pee for cats?
And I hope you will come back and bring your wife home.
And you know, I want you to turn my book and get going to your family.
I went after your flight of the 10th last year.
I had a hipster place because my texts are gone.
Oh, I'm doing great.
Thank God.
There's a decoration in there.
Now, this would be a S-A-N-A-C exercise.
A-C-O-V-A-L.
S-A-N-G-O-V-A-L.
Also known as?
Yes.
You can answer.
No, no, no.
Why?
I just got left out.
Thank you.
I've never written a script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script to my script
Do you like her at the table?
Now I've got to go.
I've got to go.
Oh, good.
Thank you.
See, let's go around and get a picture of me.
You OK?
Oh, I went around the block, huh?
Get me back.
I was looking for you.
Well, I was coming around the block.
I wouldn't be it the way I wanted to.
If I hit my nose that much, and all of a sudden, I got to get a picture.
I'll be right back.
Yeah.
All right.
Ready?
He didn't wait.
You were very entertaining.
You were wonderful.
I think Judge O'Ran is so long about my bookshelf.
You've told me.
Do we have to take the picture with him?
Okay, quite okay.
Keep working.
I can't.
You don't like my man.
One, two, three.
Okay, hold it.
Just one another.
Oh.
So you can be in the picture.
That's a very nice idea.
Wow.
Is that right for you?
good enough thank you thank you now let's get our uh back in uh with nick but you've gotten several of nick by itself but uh how about making the two winners
Oh, no kidding.
Yes, I went after you.
Oh, that's huge.
That's a great thing.
One of our famous people in Chicago.
I almost yelled out to you.
Can we get anything from that?
Yes.
It has to be.
Do you buy anything?
Can you get any of that stuff?
No, so you couldn't touch me.
I'm going to put Nick at a table.
Why don't we put a place, let's find a central place for the two ladies.
And I'll bring you all to the table.
You sure?
Really?
I don't want to put you out.
They'll give you cards.
Just in case you need a designer, exactly.
And I have a copy of his book, and I'm going to have him autograph it.
Oh, that'd be great.
Thank you.
Is it going back here?
OK.
Oh, that's great.
I love it.
Yes, it is.
I think most of the time, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day.
Are we here?
Oh, yeah, here.
Oh.
Let's go over here.
I'm glad I've read chapter 15.
We told them.
that way they can see where
Thank you.
How are you doing, Sam?
I'm staying ahead of my house.
We're going to have one in the beginning of our building.
I'm Bob and I wanted me to meet you.
Bob and I are from the Public Library.
Oh, I'm the Citizens Public Library committee.
So cool.
Yeah, have a seat.
I'll see if you're a fan and a seat.
I love for a while.
I didn't meet you.
Oh, I've got it.
Here, I've got it.
Yeah, it's right here.
It's got a notebook in there, that's all.
Uh-huh, yeah.
This is a book with the ladies.
This is
You want to tell me I have to take something to do?
Yeah.
I just wrote my e-mail.
Bob Schimmons.
I don't know.
E-mail is rskim at aol.com.
S-K-I-M-I-N-O-S-K-I-N-O-S-K-I-N-O-S-K-I-N-O-S-K-I-N-O-S-K.
So whatever you can do to help me.
Yeah, we can chat.
I'm very keen.
I have a chapter of public libraries in New York.
I think I've got more public libraries in New York and public politics in Michigan.
Right.
Well, we've had a lot of problems.
Hopefully, we're going to get them down.
When I was on the board a couple of years ago, we discovered that we had a collector, too.
We decided the following system was not very adequate.
Is this your card?
No, he's in the CGL.
Okay, very good.
Yes, sir.
I'm sorry.
No, I didn't.
Are you a biophile, Howard?
Howard, would you like to learn?
Yeah, I used to try it.
I don't know about it.
No problem.
I don't see me holding up the crowd.
Yeah, they're pretty much there.
I know, it's a crash.
Thank you very much.
Oh, I'm already into it, and I just got to get to it.
I do.
I am a graphic artist, and so I really appreciate it.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, I really like it.
I don't know.
I think it's good.
Thank you.
And this is for?
Mary.
And I'll go home.
OLD.
Actually, I correct you.
What is it?
Oh, I know all about that.
Do you do e-mails?
No.
My son...
Oh, but I don't know myself.
I can write it down.
I can get it.
I bet you know what it's like.
I bet you're right.
Oh, it's in the grass.
That wasn't easy.
Oh, yeah?
Oh, no, I got them.
Where is it?
What?
Yes.
Try again.
And the mix for a friend who couldn't have been made for a second while.
And it's been a very difficult time for a friend who couldn't have been made for a second while.
Yeah.
She and I are in the club, yeah.
And she's in the club, isn't that right?
Yeah.
South America's in the club, yeah.
We're in the club.
It's very nice.
Thank you so much.
And thanks for coming.
Congratulations.
Hello.
And if you do, I want to volunteer.
Can you encourage work?
Can I have a San Antonio paper in one of my papers?
Is it?
Is Dallas finding it?
No, I really have never had a chance to grow it.
I just started doing it.
While I was writing this book.
It's a lot of fun.
It's in Pittsburgh, it's in Nashville, it's in Worcester, it's in Oregon.
As soon as I have time, I'll just throw it in a little bit.
I'm going to write the children's book anyway.
What I'm saying is I really feel very profoundly books, not only books, but books.
I have some great ideas for some stories.
Oh, do you really?
In fact, the first idea that I've got was from Congress.
I've had aspirations or something.
I mentioned it.
I had a publication where he said, if you do that book, there's a little design in the library.
I actually propose two books.
Really?
Yeah.
I can't miss.
Every one would be about a book as an object.
This particular book would be a glamour.
They would have people on their kind of TV.
It's a ball of a cart.
They spend 25 cents a while.
The book would be heightened, too late, that's what we say.
From this book, here comes the registration procuration, and the paper and address, and the person sent there.
He's been warned, he never had a second grade education, but he did teach himself how to read this book.
So what is the story behind the book?
And I think it could tell the story about it.
And it's very well, so I'd like to know what it is.
And so I think you think that would be interesting.
Yeah, I think it would be fun.
Well, right now, you know what I mean?
No.
I thought you had heat.
You're a hurricane.
Okay.
Uh-huh.
Good.
And the Bonneke Library, do you get any of what you mean?
Yeah.
Yes, she's cute.
I love her.
Well, you know, I couldn't get too excited to go to Bloomberg if I could understand that.
What's going on, of course?
Isn't that amazing?
When I was in college, we used to read Jill.
You know, I've got 25,000 hours, and we read Jill all day long.
But they took the names of a lot of archived areas and universities.
Now, I don't know who to say that.
You know, a lot of universities, archived areas especially, were told, understand what happened to original catalog and other stuff.
And once there was a lot,
Well, I'm sure he said thank you.
I think he said thank you.
Because Joe was looking at one of the papers at the university, and they could celebrate it.
And he could even know of that.
Oh, really?
Uh-huh.
I know that, baby.
Of wanting to possess.
Yeah.
I knew it.
I understood.
My wife, what was secretly in her heart that somebody on the side, they want my collection.
Oh, oh, oh.
Well, that is true.
I can hear myself more of a collection.
and uh
.